Into:
1. Problem: What kickstarter attributes influence a project's success or failure?
            What is the predicted success rate of the proposed project given specific 
            attributes?

2. Client: Any person planning to submit and/or fund a kickstarter project @ kickstarter.com
   Learnings: Clients will be made aware of the attributes correlated to the successful funding 
   of a project and can make an informative decision on the attributes their project will have
   based on that data.
   
A deeper dive:
Important fields - 

Data: WeRobots (https://webrobots.io/kickstarter-datasets/) has crawled the 
Kickstarter.com website dumping all of the data into multiple CSV files. Data has been 
collected on the 15th of every month from September to March 2016. Prior to this 
data has been periodically collected approximately once every two months. Each row in the 
CSV file represents a Kickstarter project, containing each projects attributes and outcome 
since Kickstarter began back in 2009.
    project count: 161,447
    outcomes: successful, canceled, failed, live (i.e. outcome not yet resolved)

Kickstarter attributes include: 
    id
    name (project name)
    blurb about project
    goal (min amount needed to create what kickstartee promised) 
    pledged (money donated by backers)
    state (successful, canceled, live, suspended)
    slug
    country
    currency
    currency_symbol
    deadline (unix time)
    state_changed (unix time)
    created_at (unix time)
    launched_at (unix time)
    staff_pick
    backers_count (number of backers)
    usd_pledged (money donated by backers in USD)
    location (country, state, city)
    category (project category)
    
Limitations: ???

Cleaning and Wrangling:
Kickstarter attributes need to be cleaned. The attributes my project focuses on are:
    1. Category name - The name is imbedded in a long URL and needs to be parsed.
    Since there are 15 different categories, I will combine them into umbrella categories.
    Later on, these categories will have to be converted into numerical values so as to perform
    logistic regression.
    so that each of those umbrella categories carries more weight when running log regression.
    2. Goal amount in USD - goal amount needs to be converted to USD
    3. Backer count - Clean
    4. Blurb count - Words need to be counted
    5. launched at date - needs to be converted to date/time index

Other useful data sets?
    I will be using the most recently scraped data (from Sept) to determine how well my 
    model is performing. I.e I will look at the live datasets from older versions of the 
    data and determine if my predictions align with what the outcome actually is. 

Preliminary exploration:
   - While projects since 2009 are available, only projects from the most recent years 
    (2014 - 2016) will be analyzed. There are 2x as many projects from 
    these years, indicating an inherent bias. The year the project was launched may have 
    an effect on the projects. Therefore older projects are removed to limit biases. 
   - There are three outcomes: Failed, Successful, Canceled and Suspended. As there are significantly
     less projects in the Canceled and Suspended categories, power when analyzing
     this categories will be significantly reduced comparatively to the other two. To limit
     bias, I will focus my analyses on Failed and Successful categories only. 
     
Approach:
    - As my predicted variables are categorical (Successful vs. Failed), I will use 
    Logistic Regression to predict y. 
    - In order to test efficacy of my model I will use both Cross Validation and Random 
    Forests to determine the accuracy of my predictions.
    - In order that the client can make an informed decision on which attributes they would
    like to choose for their new project, I will provide them with the probability of an
    outcome based on the category of their project, monetary goal, number of projected 
    backers they will acquire and number of words they choose to have in their project description.
    

Code: https://github.com/AuroraLeport/Springboard/tree/master/Kickstarter_capstone   

    

