Kickstarter: Will your project be successful?

1. Problem: Which kickstarter attributes hold the most weight when it comes to the project
            succeeding or flopping?
            What is the predicted success rate of the proposed project?

2. Client: Any person planning to submit and/or fund a kickstarter @ kickstarter.com
   Learnings: Clients will know which variables are correlated to successful funding 
   of a project and base their decisions on that data.
   
3. Data: WeRobots (https://webrobots.io/kickstarter-datasets/) has crawled the 
Kickstarter.com website and has dumped data into CSV files. 
Data has been collected on the 15th of every month from July to March 2016. Prior to this 
data has been periodically collected approximately once every two months.
   Kickstarter variables include: 
    id
    name (project name)
    blurb about project
    goal (min amount needed to create what kickstartee promised) 
    pledged (money donated by backers)
    state (successful, canceled, live, suspended)
    slug
    country
    currency
    currency_symbol
    deadline (unix time)
    state_changed (unix time)
    created_at (unix time)
    launched_at (unix time)
    staff_pick
    backers_count (number of backers)
    usd_pledged (money donated by backers in USD)
    location (country, state, city)
    category (project category)

4. Approach: Determine which variables (e.g. name, category, backers, pledged, goal, # words 
in blurb) are correlated to kickstarter state (i.e. success, suspended or canceled). 

Determine the weight of these variables in terms of leading projects to their state. 
Finally, predict a new project's state based on its unique variables.
    - Test/train on randomized data. 80/20 split [1 out of 5] test [4 out of 5] train
    How much is enough??
    - Predict outcome of a subset of live projects.
    - Determine accuracy of prediction once those live projects close.

5. Deliverables: Python code and slide deck.
    
Questions:
How do I determine how much data is useful to use? Each file is approx. a month worth
of data w/ about 40 separate files totalling 800 MB
 - Need enough success, suspended and canceled cases
 
 limit data to past two years
 select projects that started on same date
 list of features that are desired
 outline them
 what will it take to grab them?
 4 features max
 
 Heather has code for train/test to look at.
 
 x4 variables that may have an effect on state of project:
 - Category
 - Number of backers
 - # of words in blurb
 - Goal amount
 - Launched_at (give or take a weeks time)
 - Amount pledged (could tell degree of success, but don't really need this variable)
 
 - State_changed_at: date at which state was changed. launch date - state change 
 would give you time to state change.
 
 Want projects that were launched at the same time
 and/or have same deadline
 
 
 15976962
 13049402